1. Pediatrics. 2024 Mar 1;153(3):e2023062570. doi: 10.1542/peds.2023-062570.


Rao S(1), Gross RS(2)(3), Mohandas S(4)(5), Stein CR(6), Case A(7), Dreyer B(5), 
Pajor NM(8), Bunnell HT(9), Warburton D(5), Berg E(10), Overdevest JB(10), 
Gorelik M(10), Milner J(10), Saxena S(10), Jhaveri R(11), Wood JC(5), Rhee 
KE(12), Letts R(3), Maughan C(3), Guthe N(3), Castro-Baucom L(3), Stockwell 
MS(10)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of Medicine and 
Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colorado.
(2)Departments of Pediatrics.
(3)Population Health, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, New York.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases.
(5)Department of Pediatrics and Radiology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Keck 
School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California.
(6)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, New York University Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, New York.
(7)Department of Pediatrics and Rehabilitation Medicine, Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(8)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(9)Biomedical Research Informatics Center, Nemours Children's Health, Nemours 
Children's Hospital, Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, New York, New York.
(11)Division of Infectious Diseases, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital 
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, School of 
Medicine, San Diego, California.
(13)Department of Population and Family Health, Columbia University Mailman 
School of Public Health, New York, New York.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has caused significant medical, 
social, and economic impacts globally, both in the short and long term. Although 
most individuals recover within a few days or weeks from an acute infection, 
some experience longer lasting effects. Data regarding the postacute sequelae of 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection (PASC) in children, or 
long COVID, are only just emerging in the literature. These symptoms and 
conditions may reflect persistent symptoms from acute infection (eg, cough, 
headaches, fatigue, and loss of taste and smell), new symptoms like dizziness, 
or exacerbation of underlying conditions. Children may develop conditions de 
novo, including postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, myalgic 
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome, autoimmune conditions and 
multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. This state-of-the-art narrative 
review provides a summary of our current knowledge about PASC in children, 
including prevalence, epidemiology, risk factors, clinical characteristics, 
underlying mechanisms, and functional outcomes, as well as a conceptual 
framework for PASC based on the current National Institutes of Health 
definition. We highlight the pediatric components of the National Institutes of 
Health-funded Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery Initiative, which seeks to 
characterize the natural history, mechanisms, and long-term health effects of 
PASC in children and young adults to inform future treatment and prevention 
efforts. These initiatives include electronic health record cohorts, which offer 
rapid assessments at scale with geographical and demographic diversity, as well 
as longitudinal prospective observational cohorts, to estimate disease burden, 
illness trajectory, pathobiology, and clinical manifestations and outcomes.

Copyright © 2024 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2023-062570
PMCID: PMC10904902
PMID: 38321938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURES: Dr Rao reports 
previous grant support from GSK and Biofire, and was a former consultant for 
Sequiris. Dr Jhaveri is a consultant for AstraZeneca, Seqirus, and Dynavax, and 
receives an editorial stipend from Elsevier. All other authors have indicated 
they have no conflicts of interest relevant to this article to disclose.