    Docket: CDC-2025-0024

    Public Comment for the June 25-27, 2025, CDC ACIP Committee Meeting

    To RFK Jr. and Members of the CDC ACIP committee:

    I have no conflicts of interest to disclose.

    Today, I am writing to express my concerns about the recent termination of all 17 members of the CDC ACIP committee announced on June 9 by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. These former members have an important role as independent expert scientists or clinicians on the ACIP committee with a crucial role in providing their understanding of the safety and efficacy of FDA-approved and authorized vaccines while also guiding insurance coverage and coverage for uninsured children through the Vaccines for Children program. Currently, vaccination rates for many infectious diseases are very low, and many communities across the US are directly affected by outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles, pertussis, and COVID. Many of these infections can cause serious and potentially lifelong consequences on their health. Children in 2025 should not die or become disabled from infectious diseases because of a lack of access to affordable and effective vaccines. Vaccines must be available to everyone and not be limited to only some people. The COVID Vaccine is one of these vaccines.

    RFK Jr., Marty Makary, and Vinay Prasad have recently established policies that limit access to COVID vaccinations.. Creating such barriers is harmful to the public’s health. Everyone must have regular access to updated COVID vaccines and vaccines in general. Vaccines must also be available with full coverage by health insurance. The scientific evidence is irrefutable and it is a waste of precious resources and time to conduct additional efficacy studies, which only serve to sow doubt in vaccines. Receiving a COVID vaccine within the last year reduces the risk of symptoms, severe disease, disability, and death for people of all ages, including previously healthy people. The new policies create barriers to access to COVID vaccines, limiting access for children, pregnant people, and adults under age 65. These restrictions also create immense confusion among the public on the usefulness of COVID vaccines. We ask you to take action, follow the evidence, and reinstate universal COVID vaccine recommendations for people of all ages, twice a year, for all COVID vaccine formulations.

I am also asking this as someone that has been vaccinated regularly my entire life and have not had any side effects due to vaccinations. I have been vaccinated with the COVID vaccine since the Pfizer and Moderna have been available. I am also a person that has been diagnosed with two separate autoimmune diseases that are passed down genetically. The vaccines have kept me from becoming severely ill both times I had COVID. I had what I felt were mild symptoms both times I fell ill with the COVID virus. Both times, I was sick for 13 and 18 and have permanent breathing issues. This could have been much worse if I had not been vaccinated and my body did not know how to properly fight the invader COVID virus. Had I not had access to the vaccine or had access to the vaccine through my insurance, I believe that I could have ended up in the hospital or even dead. I personally know people that became so sick with COVID that they were in the hospital for months and had also never been vaccinated. I work with the public, am considered an essential worker, and also considered to work in the health care setting. We sell COVID tests daily and are currently again seeing a spike in COVID test sales along with cough and cold remedies , thermometers, pulse oximeters, cough drops, etc. This has been going on for five years now. COVID is here and has never left. What I am asking is that you allow us, the public,  the access to vaccines including the COVID vaccines, and allow our insurance to continue covering  the vaccines we choose to receive. It is my life. It should be my choice if i want to be vaccinated or not. I choose to take care of myself the best way possible due to my autoimmune diseases. I do not drink or partake in any type of substance use. I cook all my own food and do not go out to eat. I only drink water and tea. I do not take any other medications except one for migraines that I've had since I was a child. I am incredibly healthy and keep my autoimmune diseases at bay. If I do have a flare up , my white blood cells are diminished and my red blood cells are effected. I feel like I have the flu. These symptoms and the effects to my cells are what would cause me to become sicker and not be able to fight the COVID virus on my own without a vaccine. This is why I know the vaccine helps me fight the COVID virus and lessens the severity of it when I have gotten sick. MY auto immune diseases can eventually lead to scleredoma, lupus, type 1 diabetes, stomach cancer, etc. Therefore, I choose to keep myself as healthy as possible including by getting vaccinated regularly. 

    Any changes to vaccine-related policies requires a science and evidence-based approach entailing an open, and transparent process. Similarly at the FDA, the VRBPAC committee members were faced with undue influence by the leadership of the FDA including Vinay Prasad. Prasad made a decision for the VRBPAC committee before they had a chance to consider and share vaccine recommendations. This also happened with the Influenza vaccine strain selection, which occurred in a closed-door meeting without recommendations from the FDA VRBPAC committee members, and no opportunity for public consideration or comment. I implore this committee to ensure that all vaccine policy decisions are considered, evaluated, and concluded using open and transparent processes, all of which are hallmarks of democracy.

    Thank you for your consideration.
