Explain the reasoning and provide the supporting data as to why they are revisiting approval of already approved vaccines.

What is the timeline for disclosure of a complete accounting of all financial conflicts of interest, both past and present, for each newly appointed ACIP member. Please also disclose which independent auditing agency that will be hired to confirm that these are their only financial conflicts of interest.

Please explain the plan to publish/outline each newly appointed ACIP members expertise and history of expertise in any of the following fields: Virology, Immunology, Epidemiology, Infectious Disease, and/or their Medical Field of Study and if they are actively practicing or licensed Physicians. If they have no qualifications or active practice in any of these scientific areas please disclose an accounting to the taxpaying public as to why and what their specific areas of expertise is such that they are tasked with making broad-sweeping medical decisions for the United States public.

Please discuss in this meeting the ethical considerations of not vaccinating children against potentially deadly and disabling disease to ensure that a "control group" can be used to see how sick and how many of them will die if not vaccinated as has been suggested to be the next goals of the current HHS, FDA and NIH directors.

Please discuss if the parents of these children be notified that their children are not receiving the protective vaccines OR does this administration plan to blind these studies such that parents of children in the US will not know if they are vaccinated against measles, mumps, rubella, polio, influenza, tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis etc.?

Please discuss parental consent and parental education plans if a study that does not allow childhood vaccination is approved.

Please provide a detailed explanation as to why the committees under the HHS have failed to select a variant for the fall SARS-CoV-2 vaccine and how this is expected to impact vulnerable and healthy populations that will, without an updated booster shot, be more prone to development of debilitating long COVID.

Please detail the committee's criteria for future vaccine approvals. This is of critical public concern given the rapid appointment of many committee members that do not have a history of direct experience or expertise in any relevant scientific fields beyond initial interest starting ~5 years ago. Typically people tasked with such serious and sweeping power to dictate the health access of a large population (~340 million Americans) have decades of relevant experience and expertise in a relevant field of study.