Docket: CDC-2025-0024
Public Comment for the June 25-27, 2025, CDC ACIP Committee Meeting
To RFK Jr. and Members of the CDC ACIP committee:
I have no conflicts of interest to disclose.

Vaccines save lives and prevent serious infections. They are needed to keep us healthy and safe from dangerous diseases. With the power of vaccines, my community and I can keep each other safe and this is very important to me. Vaccines, coupled with masking and better ventilation create a cleaner air for all.

Today, I am writing to express grave concerns about the recent termination of all 17 members of the
CDC ACIP committee announced on June 9 by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. These former members have
an important role as independent expert scientists or clinicians on the ACIP committee with a
crucial role in providing their understanding of the safety and efficacy of FDA-approved and
authorized vaccines while also guiding insurance coverage and coverage for uninsured children
through the Vaccines for Children program. Currently, vaccination rates for many infectious
diseases are very low, and many communities across the US are directly affected by outbreaks of
vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles, pertussis, and COVID. Many of these infections
can cause serious and potentially lifelong consequences on their health. Children in 2025 should
not die or become disabled from infectious diseases because of a lack of access to affordable and
effective vaccines.
RFK Jr., Marty Makary, and Vinay Prasad have recently established policies that limit access to
COVID vaccinations.. Creating such barriers is harmful to the public’s health. Everyone must have
regular access to updated COVID vaccines and widely available with full coverage by health
insurance. The scientific evidence is irrefutable and it is a waste of precious resources and time to
conduct additional efficacy studies, which only serve to sow doubt in vaccines. Receiving a COVID
vaccine within the last year reduces the risk of symptoms, severe disease, disability, and death for
people of all ages, including previously healthy people. The new policies create barriers to access
to COVID vaccines, limiting access for children, pregnant people, and adults under age 65. These
restrictions also create immense confusion among the public on the usefulness of COVID
vaccines. We ask you to take action, follow the evidence, and reinstate universal COVID vaccine
recommendations for people of all ages, twice a year, for all COVID vaccine formulations.
Any changes to vaccine-related policies requires a science and evidence-based approach entailing
an open, and transparent process. Similarly at the FDA, theVRBPAC committee members were
faced with undue influence by the leadership of the FDA including Vinay Prasad. He made a
decision for the VRBPAC committee before they had a chance to consider and share vaccine
recommendations. This also happened with the Influenza vaccine strain selection, which occurred
in a closed-door meeting without recommendations from the FDA VRBPAC committee members,
and no opportunity for public consideration or comment. I beseech this committee to ensure that
all vaccine policy decisions are considered, evaluated, and concluded using open and transparent
processes, all of which are hallmarks of democracy.
Thank you for your consideration.